= deep contradictions that vexed the positivists =

... who tried to escape concepts by appealing to empiricism

i have often told people that my favorite description of science was a random comment on the less wrong blog, something like: "science isn't the best method of answering questions, it's just the first that isn't useless like royalty or the church." As Feyerabend said: "Any ideology that breaks the hold a comprehensive system of thought has on the minds of men contributes to the liberation of man. Any ideology that makes man question inherited beliefs is an aid to enlightenment. A truth that reigns without checks and balances is a tyrant who must be overthrown and any falsehood that can aid us in the overthrow of this tyrant is to be welcomed. It follows that seventeenth- and eighteenth-century science indeed was an instrument of liberation and enlightenment. I does not follow that science is bound to remain such an instrument. There is nothing inherent in science or in any other ideology that makes it essentially liberating. Ideologies can deteriorate and become stupid religions. Look at Marxism."

once i upset a post-modernist academic by calling continental prose 'word salad' that requires indoctrination into a body of literature to understand; he got all huffy about how i was indoctrinated by the academy and just didn't realize it. i still hate that fucking word salad but the more i tried to find ways to explain what seems so clear to me, the more i realized that it is almost impossible without sharing an entire context of knowledge and definitions. i started thinking more about enlightenment ideals, and i really find it hard to abandon the idea that there was some merit in the way they cared about virtues like good lives and beautiful public space and the pursuit of knowledge; but then i look at all of the architecture i consider beautiful and realize that it was all built by slaves. i feel so conflicted by this because i really do think that bridges and sewers and subway tunnels are incredible feats of human ingenuity but then i realize that my aesthetics are colonized by a set of values that doesn't see the irony in having slaves do all your work while you wax philosophical about freedom and virtue.

but still, are we not always constantly in a state of waking up to the realization that we are perpetuating terror? are we not resting comfortably in whatever shelter we're resting in at this moment, while others cower in the ruins of buildings, praying that god will protect them from the shrapnel, not knowing whether they will live through the night? it's not hard to imagine the horrors others are facing, so why do we find it so difficult to relate, to place ourselves do i even need to go on? is it so hard to imagine the atrocities happening on this planet as you read these very words, and why is it so difficult to imagine

is there anything salvageable about the enlightenment? I can tell you one thing: collective decision making has got to go. democracy was a mistake, absolutely abolish it. it relies on an assumption of active participation which is problematic because (1) it is intentionally designed to make participation impossible (to protect the minority of the opulent from an ignorant, uneducated majority); (2) people shouldn't *have* to participate in decision making they don't care about, (3) people shouldn't be making decisions that impact people they don't know. decision making on such a large scale as a nation creates too much bureaucracy, too many byzantine procedures and processes and protocols that obscure the terrain of power and the flows of capital. the old sci-fi writers were perspicacious about the future of automation but imagined it on punch cards and metal machines, not computers and people who act even worse than machines.

is it worth continuing to have conversations about good lives,or do we burn it all to the ground? do we really destroy the pyramids? what if we turn them into memorials to the horrors and atrocities of our past so as to strike terror in our hearts so we never forget, or what about free housing and community gardens? destroying temples reminds me of religious wars where one side destroys the other side's temples as a demoralizing expression of political dominance. but then i think about these temples and what they symbolize; i think about the mercedes-benz-branded superdome still standing prominently in the skyline of New Orleans, i think about the brick roads and art deco buildings and over-the-top mansions and graveyards in pittsburgh, the most beautiful city in the world, and realize that they were built by the slaves of the wealthy who got rich polluting the rivers and producing steel for the war, and i understand what these buildings mean, and i understand where these values lead.

i have been reading the copernican revolution and it gave me insight into something that has vexed me in the past: why would i consider empiricism to be a good strategy for inquiry? i mean it's certainly EFFECTIVE--it can rend time and space, etc. and so if we want to do good things we should surely want to have an effective strategy, right? but (1) is it even possible to participate in that process without literally participating in terrorism? (2) how do we select what is actually good? history is full of atrocities committed in the service of what humans believed with all their hearts to be true.

the copernican revolution is an example of how ideas change, and the measurements of kepler combined with the logic of physics allowed scientists to overturn the entire fucking church. This is important, but the crucial insight is that if someone can believe (or some process / method can be said to have) complete certainty that they are correct, and then be shown to be wrong, then certainty is not a good indicator of whether they are correct. we need more evidence than just some person's assertion to accept something as true. There is a constant question of, 'why should i believe you?'


so when leftists say they are abolitionists yet are upset when someone they don't like walks free, or when they reject science and authority and hierarchy until they are scared for their grandmother's life and suddenly 'the science is in' and everyone who disagrees with them is a fascist, when they express certainty about their own biased beliefs and dehumanize 'the other side', they demonstrate that they know nothing about science, nothing about ethics, nothing about freedom. science is a deep intense turmoil over what can even be said to be true at all. never did i feel as if i knew so little than when i was in the throes of doing science and thinking about what it means and why it matters. science has deep problems, they just aren't those ones.

i've been thinking about what i like to dramatically claim as my beliefs (determinist materialist pragmatist). it's always been clear to me that tracing materialism all the way to its origin finds only a paradox, but i am fine with paradoxes. i have seen it as a pragmatic choice in first principles and have considered it a good enough place to start since it enables causality and prediction and this framework is clearly superior for intervening on reality (see: rend time and space, literally). but it has also been clear that tracing it all the way to the end also only finds a paradox. why do we want to measure causality and predict? obviously to intervene on the world in an effective efficient way, but there is absolutely no way to answer what that could even look like. Say for example i want to create a good life, but maybe the best way to do that would be to wipe humanity out to heal the earth

so i've always considered science and ethics to be completely incoherent to each other and could never make any sense of what ethics could mean at all. I still feel this way except that i know that there are certain moments when ethics are very clear, and those moments are closer to violence than moments of philosophy, especially the philosophy of virtue and truth.

so now my goals are different; i have no interest in producing data for a process of optimizing a good life, one that looks strangely similar to a draconian surveillance state void of freedom or joy. I want to do something that is the opposite of (or maybe orthogonal to) that. I don't want to opt out either, i want to do something 'meaningful', but our understanding of our own desires and values are so colonized by notions of 'productivity' and 'spending time' and 'building skills'.

empiricist that i am, i've been experimenting with different ways to understand what that could look like, because i know that the world has its own thoughts about truth. my current strategy is not to build discipline but actually destroy the way it constrains how i express my desire so it might flow through my actions like a creative process rather than flow through the rituals of capitalist optimization.

----------
random notes

one takeaway for sure is that the question of a good life needs to be approached in a more autonomous, decentralized way, not a large-scale democratic process, because people have so many different needs and desires and resources, and abstracting the process into an organization creates bureaucracy that just isn't needed. I can definitely imagine a worthwhile take on coordinating global resources to minimize the impact on the earth, but i am skeptical that we can stop the process in motion.

i suppose the doubt of science has this asymptote / vanishing gradient problem, but the solution is just to be wrong. to doubt whether you know the truth, to act with only the certainty required to live a good life and care about the people around you. but already the question has become complicated. we are causing so much harm but we can't feel it; our stupid monkey brains programmed only to act according to felt violence and enemies they can identify and punish.

i don't even have any interest in protecting science, in fact i know that science thrives when it is attacked and doubted to the fullest extent. only false idols claim to be certain about truth!

but in the end the world just literally doesn't care what you believe. strategies of inquiry and deference to authority will play out as they always have and they always will!
