** 6/11/2021: inexorable bifurcations
1. inescapable forms

when i speak with postmodern deconstructionists i am often confronted with assertions that the bifurcations we use to parse the universe are arbitrary. that they were created by empire, that they are imposed upon us by the subject-verb-object structure of our language--as if this is a choice made by some empire distant in the past, as if humans could be raised on another planet and taught another language (or not taught language at all) and would then not make these bifurcations, that one could read enough deluze and free themselves from the prison of these bifurcations and experience a totality that is perceptually different than the one that currently colonizes our experience. i am skeptical that this is the case.

when an eager careful thinker engages with the notion that these bifurcations are arbitrary, that they might be escaped through the deconstruction of language or the rejection of reification, i suspect they will nonetheless continue to experience bifurcations of one sort or another. Perhaps only when they're not thinking carefully or speaking mindlessly, perhaps only when conforming to the bifurcations of their audience as conversational convention. this might lead to an accumulation of evidence that these bifurcations are not arbitrary, or at the very least to a frustration that for every bifurcation destroyed another seeps in through the cracks to take its place, leaving the eager careful thinker exhausted or perhaps lost in a labyrinth of relativism.

even if one graciously concedes this as a possible outcome, one might posit that this is due to how deeply ingrained these patterns are due to our educational histories. to erase these bifurcations would mean to forget language itself, or to obliterate entirely the ontologies we use to make sense of the world. but i propose there is another reason why these bifurcations persist even in the face of deconstruction--that there are certain bifurcations that are inescapable by the human mind.

  i propose visual experience as an illustration of this point. when my gaze sweeps across the room before me i see discrete objects--a painting on the wall, a pillow on the couch, a book on the table. Intellectually I 'know' (if one will grant situating knowledge in a context of our understanding of physics) that these objects are not discrete, that all matter in the universe is the same continuous substance, that there is 'more' 'empty space' between the 'atoms' that make up the 'table' than the 'atoms' themselves--and yet i cannot will myself to visually see objects this way.

  one might respond to this claim by pointing out that notions of a 'painting' or a 'pillow' are in fact social constructions that are indeed created by empire, that these categories might not be recognized outside of a culture that produces superfluous items of luxury, but i would assert that i nonetheless cannot will my eyes to see the object that i am calling a 'painting' as continuous with the object i am calling a 'wall', nor can i will myself to alter the qualia of their colors or the light reflecting from their surfaces. and I would assert that this is true regardless of how the language i was raised in labels these objects.

  one might respond to *this* claim by pointing out that ingesting large quantities of psychadelic drugs, or certain kinds of 'deviations' in the brain/body of an 'observer' might bring about these sensory experiences, so surely it is at least possible. but this only further illistrates the point i wish to make--(visual) perception is a relation between a body and the world, it is a function of the nature of that body and the nature of the world. a stable, enduring experience is had that cannot be willed away, no matter how many reifications are abolished.

  this is not to suggest that that our conceptual understanding of non-visual phenomena works the same way (in fact i think something very different, but that's another discussion). However, it is perhaps to hint at the possibility, maybe even simply as a model, that a similar phenomenon might be experienced in the useful fiction of the self and the world outside.

  2. the nihilism question

  how are we to engage with the notion that (1) we live in a determinist universe, a void of swirling dust arranged into patterns, one of which might be described as a body sitting here on a couch typing this out for the mere reason that (a) since the universe is infinite, it is impossible for this particular pattern not to exist, and (b) if it didn't exist, i wouldn't be sitting here wondering about it? and so what kind of choice can i even make about how to engage with the relation between my inner self and the outer world? (2) if we are to take the claim seriously that there *is* no meaningful distinction between the inner self and the outer world, then haven't we said all there is to say about it, and done all there is to do? And so why does this experience of the inner self and the outer world remain?

  intellectually i may know that my body is made of the same dust as the stars, that i affect the universe as much as i am affected by it, that the 'i' that i am referencing in this sentence is a fiction, and yet when i step outside onto the flat pavement, when i walk into the bodega and order a coffee, when i make contact with the violence of empire that obscures the mutilation of my experience, i continue to experience a 'world' outside of 'me'. this is not to say that this experience is true, only that, short of deeply altering my brain/body, i am unable to exorcise myself from it. i may be able to fiddle with the ontological objects that i cast upon it in order to make sense of it, and i may even make quite a bit of progress 'decolonizing' those ontological objects, but the parsing of sensory experience into objects, i would assert, would remain. perhaps i could hole up as a hermit in the woods and forget language, or perhaps i could read enough Deluze to erode the boundaries of all of these objects into a smooth plane of infinite relations. i am skeptical that this is the case.

*** notes

This stability probably extends beyond vision to the other senses; when I touch the table i have a certain quality of experience that is stable (or at least seems stable, so is stable enough to talk about in some meaningful way). If I smell the same slice of pizza the smell does not change, and I cannot will myself to perceive it differently--the sensory experience is the relation betwen the brain/body and the pizza it encounters.

Of course, not all brain/bodies are the same. Some people are color-blind, others have certain kinds of bodies that cannot perceive faces, to name a few examples. These claims are not intended to crystallize some sort of 'law' of perception, only to describe something that appears (to me) to be regular enough to consider with interest.

Moving into the realm of conceptual experience becomes less specific.

perhaps we might satisfy ourselves with the rejection of reification, with constant attack to chip away at reification to the extent we are able, multiplicites of attentat that create cracks in the striated space where we can make contact
