* Sunday, 06/27/2021
** 14:31 post-structuralism is authoritarian

it hinges on the observation that concepts can't always be defined perfectly, and provides speakers the ability to use certain definitions when it suits them and insist on the inability to define anything at all when it suits them. the criterion that determines a coherent narrative in a social milieu is charisma. charisma is the currency people use to maniuplate social hierarchy and enforce the existing social order.

philosophers have long known that no concept can be adaquately captured by any definition, and yet we have found ways to share information, both in formal ways (e.g. science) and informal ways (e.g. i can purchase coffee from a merchant without having to deconstruct or negotiate the concept of coffee). so the process of deconstructing cncepts is a choice a communicator will make when it suits them.

(One possibility is that a communicator would make this choice to deconstruct concepts when it's "worth it", i.e. for the purpose of deconstructing authority rather than reinforcing it. I suppose the question of when one would choose to make assumptions about what concepts mean without questioning them, and when one would deconstruct concepts, is an empirical question.)

My own empirical observation (i.e. my experience) is that PMs make claims freely without attention to how the concepts underlying their assertions might be undermined by the slippery nature of knowledge. And yet when these assertions are questioned or challenged it suddenly becomes impossible to know anything at all. the PM demonstrates an uncanny penchant for certainty when making claims and uncertainty when those claims are challenged. Certainty becomes a mirage on the horizon of understanding, always just out of reach for the "non-believer", the unindoctrinated, those for whom the message does not "resonate".

The PM asserts that because concepts cannot be captured by definitions that definitions are flawed, or--worse--irrelevant. There is no use in being careful about how concepts are used for their use is arbitrary (or, worse--the act of being careful is an act of realism and empire). Yet the PM most often behaves as if this isn't true--they continue to act in the world as if they can be certain that a perfunctory social exchange in a shop will result in coffee, or that civilization is the cause of our malaise (and, by extension, that reducing our participation in civilization will reduce such malalise...) Their inferences are predicated on the implicit assumption of systematic relationships between the concepts they hold of phenomena in the world--how they map onto what they observe, how what they are observing is parsed into discrete parts, etc.

These models are in fact incoherent to the extent that they are inconsistent across time and across domains.but the criterion for whether or not these models are correct or even merely "useful" is a phenomenological sense of "certainty", a sensation that can be demonstrated to be false so easily it should be considered banal.

The PM takes this incoherence as evidence of the impossibility of "knowing real things about the world" when it is actually just evidence of the futility of using one's sense of certainty as a criterion for deciding whether or not to believe one thing or another.

It is a mistake to conclude that because people are bad at reasoning reason itself is impossible or--worse--undesirable. It is also a mistake to conclude that rejecting the primacy of one's experience as a criterion of evidence that warrants beliefs is the inevitable road to empire--to realism, to scientific materialism, whatever that is.

it is also a mistake to assume that careful thinking itself is sufficient as a criterion of evidence. these models can be (in theory) perfectly coherent and yet completely false when based on false premises. i have experienced many writers go through the motions of "careful explication", starting with bifurcations rooted in definition and moving on to claims that are presumed to "follow" from these definitions (can they even be called premises?, and can they actually be said to follow?).

In the opening of Phenomenology of Spirit, for example, Hegel proposes that "it is a natural assumption in philosophy" that cognition can take two forms--it is either an instrument that we use to comprehend 'the Absolute' or it is the medium through which one experiences it. If it exists as an instrument then it falls short of accomplishing the goal of comprehending the Absolute because "the use of an instrument does not let it be what it is for itself, but rather sets out to reshape and alter it", whereas if exists as a medium then we only experience the Absolute not as it "is" but "only as it exists through and in this medium". Hegel concludes: "Either way we employ a means which immediately brings about the opposite of its own end; or rather, what is really absurd is that we should make use of a means at all."

Why should I regard this conclusion--that making use of cognition as a means to grasp the Absolute--is true, or even useful? first i have to accept that the object of "cognition" is either one kind of thing or another--an instrument or a medium--and that each of these kinds of things has its own properties (instruments reshape and alter, and media distort what they represent). And why should i accept these premises either? My only options are either to already have been indoctrinated, to have had experiences (e.g., exposure to certain ideologies) that lead me to already accept these claims as true, or i can take Hegel's word for it.

Hegel goes through the motions of careful systematic thought but this model rests on the assertions and definitions of the thinker--that is, it rests on the charisma of the thinker and the willingness of the reader to accept the definitions of the claims of the thinker.

When someone raises the possibility and perhaps even the utility of careful thinking grounded in some criterion other than one's intution of what "makes sense" the PM shadowboxes the ghost of the realist, one who insists that we CAN i fact know perfect Truth by using the "correct" methods. This archaic opponent only further reinforces a landscape of total incoherence (except of course when the PM makes their own assertions) There are only two possibilities: total incoherence, or total certainty. Obviously total certainty is false, so total incoherence (or, similiarly and equally authoritarian, total arbitrariness) is what must remain.

This is itself a claim of dominion over what could be said to be true or known. Somehow all definitions is arbitrary, yet a claim that one could know "real" things (where "real" means pragmatic and "pragmatic" means instrumental to the communicators, ontological terms that can be negotiated) is surely false; it is outside of the sea of arbitrariness and therefore a part of the land of absolute Truth. The map of ontology has been territorialized by the victors of the dominant discourse--the charismatic thinkers who insist that definitions are arbitrary.

