= how it might should be done =

or, how we might respond to the counter-insurgency

Liberals constantly manipulate the narratives that echo through news and social media, focusing on the elements of an event that exploits people's political identity commitments such that they will respond in predictable ways. But people's political identites have been destabilizing (in ways that suggest they expect to encounter a lot of territory changes lol). They believe that people are not knowledgeable enough to form their own opinions about something, and so they tell people what they know will make them behave in predictable ways, ways that perpetuate neo-liberalism.

Flower Bomb puts it this way: "Different ideological motives create different interpretations of events. And since liberals and pacifists tend to dominate social media more than those who are too busy out in the streets, they have an advantage. And since liberals morally frame all people of color as obedient, victimist heroes, most people have difficulty admitting that people of color are capable of destroying property and participating in violent forms of protest. This also plays into the compulsion to blame ‘white’ people for forms of rebellion considered morally undesirable. Riots/uprisings are not all utopian and pretty. They are the dangerous elements of liberation that occur when all other options have failed. Whether people are afraid of violence or not won’t change the fact that police kill, and will continue to kill as long as the concept of law enforcement exists. In my opinion there is no “bettering” the police, and there is no “justice” when someone is already being buried six feet deep."

= fight the war of tomorrow, not of yesterday =

the problem (and also the advantage) is that these political identity schisms are complex enough that they can go any number of ways, depending on any number of factors we may not expect. the goal is thus not to analyze these narratives to prepare for them in the future; it is rather to learn how to respond to narratives that we will not expect, ways we will have to discover in the moment. part of the reason the early days of the rebellion were so multi-ethnic was that, in situations like that, no one has time for dumb bullshit, it's very clear who is fighting the police and who is protecting property, as well as who is trying to control the narrative about which is which. to respond to the counterinsurgency we will move in ways they just can't understand. We're not trying to fight it but out-manuver it.

Moments we can expect to see: the ultra-left attacking anti-vaxxers, and yet this category applies to a large number of Black folks. This will have the effect of leftist being associated with being racist, and therefore fascist! But they are 'anti-fascist' so they will just be confused for a period of time. maybe something could be done to exploit that. one thing is for sure, the memes will be so fucking lit.

= moments of political (identity) instability =

a common sentiment that the uprising in the early days was not just multi-racial, but multi-category in such a way that made it difficult to categorize, or rather, categorizing it caused all kinds of moments of political identity instability. For example, when Israel bombed the shit out of Palestine, and liberals started to sweat for just a minute.

"The subject of our analysis is not a race, a class, an organization, or even a movement, but a crowd. We focus on a crowd for three reasons. First, with the exception of the street medics, the power and success of those who fought the Third Precinct did not depend on their experience in “organizing” or in organizations. Rather, it resulted from unaffiliated individuals and groups courageously stepping into roles that complemented each other and seizing opportunities as they arose." -- the siege of the third precinct." -the siege of the third precinct in minneapolis

In Imaginary Enemies the author discusses how narratives of 'white (supremacist) outside agitators' perpetuated anti-Blackness and capitalist property relations. The spread of this narative prompted mass independent coordination of neighborhood watches and community patrols to stop these supposed white supremicists. The author notes (as have many others) that blaming what happened in the rebellion on white outside agitators delegitimizes the 'Black avant-garde' that spearheaded it. It additionally gaslights participants who could see for themselves that the uprising was wildly multi-ethnic.

The author notes that the conditions that gave rise for the opportunity to occur arose independently from the uprising itself. In other words, these were not 'conspiracies' engineered by liberal elites; however those elites are well-poised to take advantage of such socio-political dynamics as they arise.`

Idris says that "nothing will erase the fact that police cars were on fire in dozens of American cities", and for those on the streets at ground zero this is undoubtedly true. However for a vast majority of others, unused to witnessing actions that shattered political and racial boundaries, the new constructed narratives settle everything back into its place.

= how has biopolitical control played into this movement? =

Idris mentions a "study by some sort of consulting firm that sought to prove through quantitative means that there was a very civil nature to the protests." According to the actual study, "This analysis was conducted by collecting geo-located volunteered social media videos of the protests across the country, cross referencing that information against local news reports, recent satellite imagery, Google Street View and known landmarks to verify locations, as well as anonymized surges in cell phone activity provided by Safegraph."

Liberals exploit fear, uncertainty, and moralism in order to ease people into feeling comfortable about increasing amounts of surveillance and biopolitical control. In the early days of the coronavirus pandemic we saw a rash of articles showing high-color maps of the geospatial history data, taken from cell phones, of people who tested positive for coronavirus. This means that companies had retroactive access to weeks of precise geospatial data for users that they were easily able to tie to their individual identities. Some might feel a sense of relief that we have the technology to 'stop the spread' and 'keep us safe', and some might not like the idea yet accept it as a necessary evil to manage the pandemic. Either way, the media quietly slips these narratives into the news at opportune times where it will be most likely for people to feel that the increase in surveillance is a good thing.

= exploit the pandemic through partisan knowledge =

Idris argues that we should take advantage of the pandemic and use it as a weapon against our enemies. "What I am arguing for here is something very similar. We all know that Black people and brown people were disproportionately affected by the COVID pandemic. This is a medical problem. But it is much more than a mere medical-scientific problem, it is a political problem. We must reject the sort of sanitized liberal politics of safety that is afraid of the pandemic, that is largely a sanitary discourse around masks, distancing, etc. I know this is a political issue now. But, on the flip side, I’m not defending right-wing  conspiracy theorist ideas that the pandemic does not exist, or that it is just a flu, etc.. What I’m proposing here is that we develop a kind of partisan knowledge—our own knowledge about the pandemic—to exploit the pandemic for our own good, and to use the knowledge of the pandemic as a weapon against our enemies."

This is basically already happening as the boundaries of the "anti-vaxxer" political category start to swell to include groups that liberals cannot attack (in a legible way), such as Black people (and probably religious crazies as well, should emphasize that to make them go bonkers). So we spread awareness of these very awkward facts to flush liberals from our ranks. the Leftists will chase these insurrectionaries down the streets, joyless and finger-wagging, as the insurrectionaries set shit on fire. The leftists will run to the news and say that these insurrectionaries are harming small black businesses. And the insurrectionaries will be Black! It will be very awkward for the leftists, and they will understand that there are greater things at stake than whatever infintesimal risk you have to fash-jacket people for refusing to submit to biopolitical control. This is not to say (obviously) that Black people are anti-vax; no, obviously that is a category that transcends Black people. But this is an exploit against leftists, posted here for educational purposes only.

= every tool is a weapon if you use it right =

Idris advocates for analyzing what occured in the past riots in order to prepare for future riots. "What I am advocating is a paradoxical ordering of disorder, an Organized Konfusion (for those who remember the rap group). To do this, we must read up on tactics: we must look into what exactly was smashed; what exactly was looted; and how and why the occupations were effective or ineffective. We need to think strategically about the chaos that we inflict in the streets." However, Liberals are always better poised to take advantage of data, relate it to behavior, and exploit the narratives. the goal is not to play their game but to move in ways they can't understand. then we exploit their stupid identity scripts and watch them melt down on fucking television, the precincts are burning, the targets are getting looted, the stock market is crashing, the tankies are chasing down everyone who won't sign on to their 25 or walk plan (they've been ORGANIZING FOR THIS FOR A LONG TIME SO DON'T RUIN IT, OK?!), antifa is chasing down anti-vaxxers, it will be utter chaos, which is always the good kind!

We have to get better at using these identities as weapons, not policing tactics. This will flush out who is scared of knives.



