02/17: You say "poetry" like it's a bad thing

I would have never thought I'd be defending poetry, but i guess we don't always get to choose which side we're on...

Let science be the echo in our heads that clangs so loudly against every wall we can't help but reconsider everything we've take for granted. let it shake us from our stupor. let a deep mistrust for elitist rhetoric be revered and held in the highest regard as the most self-evident truth imaginable. Let us always start from first principles and let a thousand paradoxes bloom. Let the positivists conclude w/ certainty that kindness is all that matters while the post-modernists defend the cold calculations of hostility as dogma.

we crave action yet consume identity. parasocial relationships fill the void in our hearts like prozac fills seratonin receptors in our brains. let us forever be confused about which side we're on.

science built civilization, and labor flows through institutions as the labor of the past built them, as the capital of the past intended them, with the same results that echo through history, forever!

Let no more tyrants seize the power of the 'working class'. no more labor. no more production. No more architects of industry.

let science be the question and never the answer. "On the basis of what evidence should I believe you?" and let evidence be what is obvious to the eye or mind, not tucked away in the ivory towers of murderous institutions. I would rather a thousand times find myself on the side of the village idiot refusing to trust the authority of an institution than i would the vacuous shell of the commodity of enlightenment. history is clear that trust in elitist institutions is more likely to lead to ruin than to salvation.

Let the world we see with our own eyes be the world we believe, and not the one they try to sell us. If we 'believe' in evidence then let it speak for itself! But they don't want that world, because, oh, how there will be clanging...

Let it be the clanging of the ideas in our heads instead of the clanging of our bodies in their their wars!

there is no practice of any ideology that is 'the way' except for the way we turn to the world around us and do whatever it takes to be good to the people in front of our faces. not for a nation, not even a communist one. Not for the promise of a technologically-advanced future that promises to solve all of its own technologically-advanced problems. Not for a parasocial political experience where we spar with no stakes with ghosts with no faces. believe nothing that you don't see with your own eyes.

anti-state, not even in a state of exception. anti-state, even when the state is the 'lesser harm'. there can be no greater harm than the state, dammit! it starts w/ the demand for trust at the threat of violence and ends with leviathan.

we are all entranced by the same spectacle, trapped in echo chambers filled with the clanging of our parapolitical commodified identity traps, a spiritual LRAD paralyzing us into somehow siding with the state, every time, regardless of what side.

who is making who work? why? what are they making us do? what is the result? What are the consequences? We are the echoes of conquest thrown into the future.

Let us be confused about what side we're on and recognize this as the cracks of empire. Do we really long for the end of empire and yet cling to it at the first sign of those cracks?
